---
layout: post
title:  "Post 11: Progress as of 2024-02-27"
date:   2024-02-27 01:17:33 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---

## Mechanical & Electrical 
The circuit is completed with sensors, arduino uno and all other electrical components.

Tested and tuned all types of sensors with arduino IDE.
Had to make some re-purchase of sensors as some sensors having bad performance and does not meet the requirments and purpose of this project.

Remove the idea of using batteries to power the system, as power could cause the system to overheat and re-charging batteries reduced the convenience. Use power plug to replace batteries for the power input.

Re-designed new mechanical prototype based on the the change of sensors and power input.

Whats left to do are re-testing and tune the new sensors.

## Software
At this point, the applications were deployed instead of running everything on the local device. The deployment was done using the Railway application to deploy a MySQL database, the Java Spring Boot backend and the JavaScript React frontend.

Also more work was done on the arduino and raspberry pi side. Serial communication was used to connect the arduino uno to the raspberry pi. The arduino was coded to pick up readings from its temperature, noise and light sensor every second and sending it via a serial write as a JSON message. Then on the raspberry pi, a python script was written that would read from the serial port and send batch requests to the deployed server. The python script was configured to be a linux system service such that it would start running on bootup and while it's powered on.

Some things left to do is to finalize the script to parse the FitBit reports to get sleep quality data to the backend server and to clean up some frontend design to make it eye catching. Lastly, finalize the correlation algorithm running on the server.

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
